My hypothesis was to show the correlation between MBTA ridership and inches of snowfall. I thought that most people would still drive to work if there is a small amount of snow on the ground around 1-4 inches of snow. When it is too dangerous to drive for about 5-9 inches of snow, people might still take the train to work, and I predict that MBTA usage goes up. However, if there are about 10-12+ inches of snow, then people might not want to leave their homes at all and work from home. Additionally, maybe the MBTA ridership is dependent on different socioeconomic populations. If people from a wealthier county have jobs that allow for working at home during a storm, then they may not need to travel into the city. However, people in a different county may have jobs that require them to be in Boston. 

I computed my results by gathering data sets that included the number of riders at a station in 15-minute intervals, the snowfall amounts for the city of Boston and the incomes per zip code in the United States. I tagged each snow day by the amount of snowfall, 0-1 inches negligible, 1-4 inches low, 4-9 inches medium, 9+ inches high. I computed a total number of riders per station per day and then combined the snowfall tags for each day. Next, I scraped out the zipcodes by collecting the unique website endings for each station, added them on to the ending of the website address, and visited each MBTA station website. Some station websites didn’t have the zipcodes, so I integrated the Google API Geocoding to search the cross street address for each station and emit the correct zip code. I then found an income for each zip code. Lastly, I combined the ridership and snow values with the income and zip code for each day and station. To compute the percent change in ridership on a snow day, I found the average of the ridership from the two weeks before and two weeks after and I computed the change in the ridership of that day by subtracting the average ridership from the weeks before and after from the daily ridership. Then, I divided the change by the average of the ridership from the period and got the percent change in ridership. I plotted the percent change for each station by the income per station. For the diameter of each data point (circle size), I computed the station density or the regular ridership on any day for each station. The larger the circle, the more people travel there usually and vice versa.

My results confirmed that with any amount of snow the overall MBTA ridership decreases. Since the data collected from the small snow days indicated that there was mostly a small decrease in ridership across all incomes and the medium snow days indicated a general decrease in ridership throughout all socioeconomic backgrounds, I decided to focus on the big snow days (my program makes a graphical representation of the big snowdays). As income increases the percentage of ridership (compared to the regular ridership in that season) decreases for 9+ inches of snow (big snow days). Interestingly, the largest number of stations with a decrease in ridership center around the middle class (middle income). While there is a significant decrease in ridership from high-income stations, the decrease among lower-income stations varies drastically. From my data, I can conclude that generally the more income you make (once you reach about $55,000), the less likely you are to ride the MBTA during a big snow storm.